ANALYSIS FOR VALUABLE INSIGHTS:
•	Enhance customer Satisfaction
•	Optimize operations
•	Drive overall business growth
Analysis steps:
o	Customer Analysis
o	Sales Analysis
o	Product Analysis
o	Stores Analysis

DATA CLEANING & PREPARATION
o	General data cleaning such as, 
o	Dropping of duplicates
o	Fill  NA 

SPECIFIC DATA SET CLEANING:   CUSTOMER DATA
	The birthday is converted to a format, that is easier for age calculation.
	Clearing the state names   of “-”.

SPECIFIC DATA SET CLEANING:  SALES DATA

 	The order date is converted to date Format.
 	Fillna(0) is applied to the empty cells in the ‘Delivery Date’ Column.
 	The delivery date too is converted to date format.

SPECIFIC DATA SET CLEANING:  PRODUCTS DATA

o	The ‘$’ sign is removed from both ‘Unit Cost USD’ and ‘Unit Price USD’.
o	And their datatype has been converted to float for ease of calculation.

SPECIFIC DATA SET CLEANING:  STORES DATA & EXCHANGE RATES DATA

 	The dates data in both these data sets are converted to date format.

DATA BASE
DICTIONARY OF DATA:  PANDAS DATA FRAME

o	The cleaned data are built into data frames using Panadas Data_Frame.
 

CUSTOMER DATA SET:  CREATING SQL TABLE & INSERTING DATA
o	The dates data in both these data sets are converted to date format.

ANALYSIS
Customer Analysis:

	The total number of customers in the customer data base is, 15,266.
	But the actual number of customers who had made any purchase is, 11,887.
	United States has the maximum number of customers (5706). 
	In France, Australia and Germany the No. of women customers are more than their male counterparts.
	The  gender wise orders by women are more in France, Australia and Germany .
	EDA with the help of power BI, highlights that the substantial number of customers are above 40.
	And the substantial revenue is also generated by customers in the age group “Over 40”.
 
Customer and Store Analysis:
o	To check if we have number of physical stores in proportion to customer population/ sales.
o	Below a SQL query is generated to identify Countries with higher “Over 40” customers orders and fewer physical stores.
 

SALES TRENDS ANALYSIS:

	The maximum sales has been in the year 2019.
	There has been a steady increase until 2019. 
	And the subsequent dip in sales after 2019, could be contributed to the inflation after COVID19.
	From the power Bi analysis its obvious that , that the sales which had so far been on an increasing trend during the winter vacation months(year end/ holiday season), had slowly shifted to Jan and February months from 2019.
	And in 2021 there has  been a substantial drop in sales after Feb. 
Stores Analysis:
o	Out of  66 Offline stores only 57, have sales.
o	It has been observed that 9 stores don’t have any sales.








STORES / SALES ANALYSIS: Average sales per store

o	Its derived from the SQL queries that next to US; Canada, UK and Germany have good ‘Average Sales per Store’ .
o	And the number of stores is quite less in Canada. 

CURRENCY & SALES ANALYSIS:  No. of Customers and Products

 	Its derived from the SQL queries that next to US; Canada, UK and Germany have good ‘Average Sales per Store’ .
 	And the number of stores is quite less in Canada. 















o	From the graphical analysis of Power BI, its observed that, when exchange rate is mid band, the profit is at its peak.
PRODUCTS ANALYSIS:
	Its observed from Power BI graph that, Movie DVDs are the post popular product on sales, across age groups.
	The popular items identified, can have more stock and more brands. 
	Its observed from Power BI graph that, Movie DVDs are the post popular product on sales, across age groups.
	The popular items identified, can have more stock and more brands.
INFERENCES AND SUGGESTIONS
	Can identify top 25 or more customers (as shown).
	Can motivate further purchase by points gained at each purchase and subsequent rebates.
	Can motivate for initial purchase, by offering simple deals for first purchases.
	The data indicates,
o	Opening more stores in Canada can boost sales.
o	The no. of stores in France can be reduced.
	Out of  66 Offline stores only 57, have sales.
	It has been observed that 9 stores don’t have any sales.
	The stores with NIL sales have been identified and they can be closed.
	The holiday offers could be extended into the months of January and February to boost sales.
	Based data and graphics derived from Power BI, the popular brands and their products can be stocked up.

